README.md, before:

# Ansible Pass Lookup Plugin

> Ansible lookup plugin for ZXC24's [pass][0]  password manager.

This lookup plugin allows you to use a [pass][0] compatible password store to
generate passwords. It mimics de behaviour of the password lookup, but using pass
instead of plaintext files for storing the passwords.

If the password doesn't exist it will be generated.

## Usage

Clone this repository in a directory of your choice and tell ansible to look for
plugins there by setting something like this in `ansible.cfg`:

```
lookup_plugins=/path/to/ansible/plugins
```

Then just use it as you would use the password lookup, but with the path to your
password instead of the path to a file. For example, if you would normally get
your password with

```
$ pass path/to/your/password
```

you would use it like this in a playbook to set the password of a user

```yaml
vars:
  password: "{{ lookup('pass', 'path/to/your/password') }}"

tasks:
  - name: set password for user debian
    user:
      name: debian
      password: "{{ password | password_hash('sha512') }}"
      state: present
      shell: /bin/bash
```

## Settings

By default it uses `~/.password-store` as the password store. If you need to
change this set the `ANSIBLE_PASS_PASSWORD_STORE_DIR` environment variable to the
absolute path of the password store you want to use.

## Parameters

You can use parameters to control how `pass generate` will be called.

* **`length`:** length of the generated password (default: `32`).
* **`symbols`:** include symbols in the generated password (default: `False`).
* **`regenerate`:** force the generation of a new password (default: `False`).

### Example

```yaml
password: "{{ lookup('pass', 'path/to/your/password length=16 symbols=True regenerate=True') }}"

```

## License

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or any later version.

[0]: https://www.passwordstore.org/ "pass"

Commit message:

support multiline lookups
This introduces a parameter which allows the plugin to return the full
contents of the pass entry. I use this so that I can store an SSL key in
pass and have ansible deploy it when provisioning a web server. I still
believe that returning only the first line is the correct default.

The "multiline" language should be familiar to pass users who `pass insert
--multiline`.

README.md, after:

# Ansible Pass Lookup Plugin

> Ansible lookup plugin for ZXC24's [pass][0]  password manager.

This lookup plugin allows you to use a [pass][0] compatible password store to
generate passwords. It mimics de behaviour of the password lookup, but using pass
instead of plaintext files for storing the passwords.

If the password doesn't exist it will be generated.

## Usage

Clone this repository in a directory of your choice and tell ansible to look for
plugins there by setting something like this in `ansible.cfg`:

```
lookup_plugins=/path/to/ansible/plugins
```

Then just use it as you would use the password lookup, but with the path to your
password instead of the path to a file. For example, if you would normally get
your password with

```
$ pass path/to/your/password
```

you would use it like this in a playbook to set the password of a user

```yaml
vars:
  password: "{{ lookup('pass', 'path/to/your/password') }}"

tasks:
  - name: set password for user debian
    user:
      name: debian
      password: "{{ password | password_hash('sha512') }}"
      state: present
      shell: /bin/bash
```

## Settings

By default it uses `~/.password-store` as the password store. If you need to
change this set the `ANSIBLE_PASS_PASSWORD_STORE_DIR` environment variable to the
absolute path of the password store you want to use.

## Parameters

You can use parameters to control how `pass generate` will be called.

* **`length`:** length of the generated password (default: `32`).
* **`symbols`:** include symbols in the generated password (default: `False`).
* **`regenerate`:** force the generation of a new password (default: `False`).

By default only the first line of a pass entry is returned when looking up an
existing password. Setting the `multiline` parameter to `True` will cause the
full contents of the file to be returned.

### Example

Generate a new 16 character password including symbols:

```yaml
password: "{{ lookup('pass', 'path/to/your/password length=16 symbols=True regenerate=True') }}"

```

Return the full content of an existing pass entry:

```yaml
password: "{{ lookup('pass', 'path/to/your/password multiline=True') }}"

```

## License

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or any later version.

[0]: https://www.passwordstore.org/ "pass"
